---
description: Mostly focusing on the LDO circuitry.
---

# 23.04 - First Batch Testing

## Summary

For the initial design of the FLIP-C3, an LDO from Seward Electronics was chosen due to its max suggested input voltage of 60v. The SE8650X2-HF has a current limit of 200ma so it was determined that four(4) of them be used in parallel considering the potential needs of the ESP32-C3, a WS2812B LED, a red LED plus some overhead.

The initial design duplicates the suggested circuitry for each LDO, so each input has a 1uF ceramic capacitor to ground while each output has a 10uF capacitor to ground.

## Initial Results

The first batch of 10 arrived in early April and testing began with USB connectivity and the ESP32-C3's ability to run code. Aside from a missing pull-up resistor on the ENABLE pin, everything seems ok here.&#x20;

Upon testing the DC input component, it was placed on a bench power supply (Riden RD6018) at about 9v which is near the low end of acceptable input voltages for the array. It behaved normally for several hours.

When raising the voltage I noticed extreme heat from both the ESP32 but especially the array of LDOs... in-fact too hot to touch. Going further seemed to elicit a thermal shutdown effect.

## 24.04.17 Active Testing

```markdown
TODO: Connect RD6018 to Home Assistant for testing automation.
```

### Voltage Effect

With an enabled ESP32-C3 running ESPHome and sending the following values to Home Assistant over API:

* 5v rail voltage
* 3v3 rail voltage
* Internal ESP32-C3 Temperature
  * Normal temperature range on USB is around 40-50°C
  * Red LED was on during testing
  * 12v input \~ 60°C
  * 14v input \~ 70°C
  * 16v input \~ 78°C
    * 0.47-0.79w
  * 18v input \~78°C
    * 0.53-0.89w
  * 20v input \~ 78°C
    * 0.39 - 0.99w&#x20;
    * Starts rebooting on its own, temps drop
  * 19v input stable until attempted OTA update

